The Sukuk Enhancement Fund (SEF) is an innovative risk mitigation mechanism that offers partial protection to Sukuk investors through collective contributions among Sukuk issuers. The mechanism imposes no additional costs to issuers. The mechanism does not require an external guarantee or insurance. Moreover, members may get as dividends a portion of the contributions in case of no distress or default.
Since the SEF enhances the risk profile of issued Sukuk, it allows issuers, particularly small and medium enterprises, to access capital markets at better terms and favorable conditions. Such enterprises usually face various sorts of constraints in mobilizing resources. The SEF, therefore, can open new possibilities for smaller businesses that may have been otherwise excluded from the capital markets.
The SEF structure can be enhanced by investors who provide capital to support the pool of contributions from the start. This makes the Fund immune from exposure to credit risk of issuers and thus provides risk-free protection to Sukuk holders within its specified mandate.
Extensive Monte Carlo analysis shows that the Fund can withstand various shocks within its limits. Various scenarios of distress or default show that the Fund is able to compensate Sukuk holders with a very low probability of deficit, especially with the capital enhancement of the Fund.
Overall, the SEF can be an effective tool for mitigating risk and enhancing systemic stability and diversity for the Sukuk market.

